# Authentification à deux facteurs

Steam includes two-factor authentication system known as "Escrow" that requires extra details for various account-related activity. Vous pouvez en apprendre plus par rapport à ce système **[ici](https://help.steampowered.com/faqs/view/2E6E-A02C-5581-8904)** et **[ici](https://help.steampowered.com/faqs/view/34A1-EA3F-83ED-54AB)**. This page considers that 2FA system as well as our solution that integrates with it, called ASF 2FA.

---

# Logique de ASF

Regardless if you use ASF 2FA or not, ASF includes proper logic and is fully aware of accounts protected by standard 2FA. It will ask you for required details when they're needed (such as during logging in). However, those requests can be automated by using ASF 2FA, which will automatically generate required tokens, saving you hassle and enabling extra functionality (described below).

---

# ASF 2FA

ASF 2FA is a built-in module responsible for providing 2FA features to the ASF process, such as generating tokens and accepting confirmations. It works by duplicating your existing authenticator details, so that you can use your current authenticator and ASF 2FA at the same time.

You can verify whether your bot account is using ASF 2FA already by executing `2fa` **[commands](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Commands)**. Unless you've already imported your authenticator as ASF 2FA, all standard `2fa` commands will be non-operative, which means that your account is not using ASF 2FA, therefore it's also unavailable for advanced ASF features that require the module to be operative.

---

# Recommendations

There are a lot of ways to make ASF 2FA operative, here we include our recommendations based on your current situation:

- If you're already using SteamDesktopAuthenticator, WinAuth or any other third-party app that allows you to extract 2FA details with ease, just **[import](#import)** those to ASF.
- If you're using official app and you don't mind resetting your 2FA credentials, the best way is to disable 2FA, then **[create](#creation)** new 2FA credentials by using **[joint authenticator](#joint-authenticator)**, which will allow you to use official app and ASF 2FA. This method doesn't require root or advanced knowledge, barely following instructions.
- If you're using official app and don't want to recreate your 2FA credentials, your options are very limited, typically you'll need root and extra fiddling around to **[import](#import)** those details, and even with that it might be impossible.
- If you're not using 2FA yet and don't care, you can use ASF 2FA with **[standalone authenticator](#standalone-authenticator)**, third-party app **[duplicating](#import)** to ASF (recommendation #1), or **[joint authenticator](#joint-authenticator)** with official app (recommendation #2).

Below we discuss all possible options and known to us methods.

---

## Creation

In general, we strongly recommend **[duplicating](#import)** your existing authenticator, since that's the main purpose ASF 2FA was designed for. However, ASF comes with an official `MobileAuthenticator` **[plugin](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Plugins)** that further extends ASF 2FA, allowing you to link a completely new authenticator as well. This can be useful in case you're unable or unwilling to use other tools and do not mind ASF 2FA becoming your main (and maybe only) authenticator.

There are two possible scenarios for adding a two-factor authenticator with the `MobileAuthenticator` **[plugin](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Plugins)**: standalone or joint with the official Steam mobile app. In the second scenario, you will end up with the same authenticator on both the ASF and mobile app; both will generate the same codes, and both will be able to confirm trade offers, Steam Community Market transactions, etc.

### Common steps for both scenarios

No matter if you plan to use ASF as the standalone authenticator or want the same authenticator on the official Steam mobile app, you need to do those initialization steps:

1. Create an ASF bot for the target account, start it, and log in, which you probably already did.
2. Assign a working and operational phone number to the account **[here](https://store.steampowered.com/phone/manage)** to be used by the bot. A phone number is absolutely required, as there is no way to add 2FA without it.
3. Ensure you're not using 2FA yet for your account, if you do, disable it first.
4. Execute the `2fainit [Bot]` command, replacing `[Bot]` with your bot's name.

Assuming you got a successful reply, the following two things have happened:

- A new `<Bot>.maFile.PENDING` file was generated by ASF in your `config` directory.
- SMS was sent from Steam to the phone number you have assigned for the account above.

The authenticator details are not operational yet, however, you can review the generated file if you'd like to. If you want to be double safe, you can, for example, already write down the revocation code. The next steps will depend on your selected scenario.

### Standalone authenticator

If you want to use ASF as your main (or even only) authenticator, now you need to do the finalization step:

5. Execute the `2fafinalize [Bot] <ActivationCode>` command, replacing `[Bot]` with your bot's name and `<ActivationCode>` with the code you've received through SMS in the previous step.

### Joint authenticator

If you want to have the same authenticator in both ASF and the official Steam mobile app, now you need to do the next steps:

5. Ignore the SMS that you received after the previous step.
6. Install the Steam mobile app if it's not installed yet, and open it. Navigate to the Steam Guard tab and add a new authenticator by following the app's instructions.
7. After your authenticator in the mobile app is added and working, return to ASF. You now need to tell ASF that finalization is done with the help of one of the two commands below:
 - Wait until the next 2fa code is shown in the Steam mobile app, and use the command `2fafinalized [Bot] <2fa_code_from_app>` replacing `[Bot]` with your bot's name and `<2fa_code_from_app>` with the code you currently see in the Steam mobile app. If the code generated by ASF and the code you provided are the same, ASF assumes that an authenticator was added correctly and proceeds with importing your newly created authenticator.
 - We strongly recommend to do the above in order to ensure that your credentials are valid. However, if you don't want to (or can't) check if codes are the same and you know what you're doing, you can instead use the command `2fafinalizedforce [Bot]`, replacing `[Bot]` with your bot's name. ASF will assume that the authenticator was added correctly and proceed with importing your newly created authenticator.

### After finalization

Assuming everything worked properly, the previously generated `<Bot>.maFile.PENDING` file was renamed to `<Bot>.maFile.NEW`. This indicates that your 2FA credentials are now valid and active. We recommend that you create a copy of that file and keep it in **a secure and safe location**. In addition to that, we recommend you open the file in your editor of choice and write down the `revocation_code`, which will allow you to, as the name implies, revoke the authenticator in case you lose it.

In regard to technical details, the generated `maFile` includes all details that we have received from the Steam server during linking the authenticator, and in addition to that, the `device_id` field, which may be needed for other authenticators. The file is fully compatible with **[SDA](#steamdesktopauthenticator)** for import.

ASF automatically imports your authenticator once the procedure is done, and therefore `2fa` and other related commands should now be operational for the bot account you linked the authenticator to.

---

## Import

Import process requires already linked and operational authenticator that is supported by ASF. ASF currently supports a few different official and unofficial sources of 2FA - Android, iOS, SteamDesktopAuthenticator and WinAuth, on top of manual method which allows you to provide required credentials yourself. If you don't have any authenticator yet, you need to choose one of available apps and set it up firstly. If you don't know better which one to pick, we recommend WinAuth, but any of the above will work fine assuming you follow the instructions.

Tous les guides suivants exigent que vous ayez déjà un authentificateur ** fonctionnel et opérationnel </ 0> utilisé avec un outil / ou une application tiers. ASF 2FA ne fonctionnera pas correctement si vous importez des données non valides. Assurez-vous donc que votre authentificateur fonctionne correctement avant de tenter de l'importer. Cela inclut de tester et de vérifier que les fonctions suivantes de l'authentificateur fonctionnent correctement:</p>
- Vous pouvez générer des jetons et ces jetons sont acceptés par le réseau Steam
- Vous pouvez récupérer les confirmations et elles arrivent sur votre authentificateur mobile
- Vous pouvez accepter ces confirmations et elles sont correctement reconnues par le réseau Steam comme confirmées / rejetées.

Ensure that your authenticator works by checking if above actions work - if they don't, then they won't work in ASF either, you'll only waste time and cause yourself additional trouble.

---

### Téléphone Android

**The below instructions apply to Steam app in version `2.X`, there are currently limited **[resources](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/discussions/2786)** on extracting required details from version `3.0` onwards. We'll update this section once generally-available method is found. As of today, a workaround would be to intentionally install older version of Steam app, register 2FA and extract the required details first, after which it's possible to update the application to latest version - existing authenticator will continue to work.**

En général, pour l’importation de l'authentificateur depuis votre téléphone Android, vous aurez besoin de l'accès **[root](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rooting_(Android_OS))**. La méthode pour effectué un root varie d’un appareil à l’autre, donc je ne vous dirai pas comment root votre périphérique. Visit **[XDA](https://www.xda-developers.com/root)** for excellent guides on how to do that, as well as general information on rooting in general. If you can't find your device or the guide that you need, try to find it on google second.

At least officially, it's not possible to access protected Steam files without root. The only official non-root method for extracting Steam files is creating unencrypted `/data` backup in one way or another and manually fetching appropriate files from it on your PC, however because such thing highly depends on your phone manufacturer and **is not** in Android standard, we won't discuss it here. Si vous avez de la chance d'avoir une telle fonctionnalité, vous pouvez l'utiliser, mais la majorité des utilisateurs n'ont rien de cela.

Unofficially, it is possible to extract the needed files without root access, by installing or downgrading your Steam app to version `2.1` (or earlier), setting up mobile authenticator and then creating a snapshot of the app (together with the `data` files that we need) through `adb backup`. However, since it's a serious security breach and entirely unsupported way to extract the files, we won't elaborate further on this, Valve disabled this security hole in newer versions for a reason, and we only mention it as a possibility. Still, it might be possible to do a clean install of that version, link new authenticator, extract the required files, and then upgrade the app, which should be just enough, but you're on your own with this method anyway.

Assuming that you've successfully rooted your phone, you should afterwards download any root explorer available on the market, such as **[this one](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.jrummy.root.browserfree)** (or any other one of your preference). You can also access the protected files through ADB (Android Debug Bridge) or any other available to you method, we'll do it through the explorer since it's definitely the most user-friendly way.

Once you opened your root explorer, navigate to `/data/data` folder. N'oubliez pas que le répertoire `/data/data` est protégé et que vous ne pourrez pas y accéder sans accès root. Once there, find `com.valvesoftware.android.steam.community` folder and copy it to your `/sdcard`, which points to your built-in internal storage. Afterwards, you should be able to plug your phone to your PC and copy the folder from your internal storage like usual. If by any chance the folder won't be visible despite you being sure that you copied it to the right place, try restarting your phone first.

Now, you can choose if you want to import your authenticator to WinAuth first, then to ASF, or to ASF right away. La première option est plus pratique et vous permet de dupliquer votre authentificateur également sur votre PC, vous permettant ainsi d’effectuer des confirmations et de générer des jetons à partir de 3 endroits différents - votre téléphone, votre PC et ASF. If you want to do that, simply open WinAuth, add new Steam authenticator and choose importing from Android option, then follow instructions by accessing the files that you've obtained above. When done, you can then import this authenticator from WinAuth to ASF, which is explained in dedicated WinAuth section below.

If you don't want to or don't need to go through WinAuth, then simply copy `files/Steamguard-<SteamID>` file from our protected directory, where `SteamID` is your 64-bit Steam identificator of the account that you want to add (if more than one, because if you have only one account then this will be the only file). You need to place that file in ASF's `config` directory. Once you do that, rename the file to `BotName.maFile`, where `BotName` is the name of your bot you're adding ASF 2FA to. Après cette étape, lancer ASF - il devrait remarquer la `.maFile` et l’importer.

```text
[*] INFO: ImportAuthenticator() <1> Converting .maFile into ASF format...
[*] INFO: ImportAuthenticator() <1> Successfully finished importing mobile authenticator!
```

That's all, assuming that you've imported the correct file with valid secrets, everything should work properly, which you can verify by using `2fa` commands. If you made a mistake, you can always remove `Bot.db` and start over if needed.

---

### ios

Pour iOS, vous pouvez utiliser **[ios-steamguard-extracteur](https://github.com/CaitSith2/ios-steamguard-extractor)**. Cela est possible grâce au fait que vous pouvez effectuer une sauvegarde décryptée, la placer sur votre PC et utiliser l'outil afin d'extraire des données Steam qui seraient autrement impossibles à obtenir (du moins sans jailbreak, en raison du cryptage iOS).

Rendez-vous sur **

 dernière version </ 0> pour télécharger le programme. Une fois les données extraites, vous pouvez les insérer, par exemple. dans WinAuth, puis de WinAuth à ASF (bien que vous puissiez également simplement copier un fichier json généré à partir de `{` se terminant par `}` dans `BotName.maFile` et continuer comme d'habitude). Si vous me le demandez, je vous recommande fortement d'importer d'abord dans WinAuth, puis de vous assurer que les deux types de génération de jetons et d'acceptation des confirmations fonctionnent correctement. Vous pouvez ainsi être sûr que tout va bien. Si vos informations d'identification ne sont pas valides, ASF 2FA ne fonctionnera pas correctement. Il est donc préférable de faire de la dernière étape d'importation ASF.</p> 

Pour les questions / problèmes, consultez la page ** questions </ 0>.</p> 

*N’oubliez pas que l’outil ci dessus n’est pas officiel, vous l’utilisez à vos propres risques. Nous n’offrons pas de support technique, si cela ne fonctionne pas correctement - nous avons quelques signaux que c'est lexportateur 2FA  qui n'a pas fonctionné correctement - vérifier que les confirmations fonctionne dans un authentificateur comme WinAuth avant d’importer ces données à ASF !*



---



### SteamDesktopAuthenticator

Si vous avez votre authentificateur  SDA déjà en fonctionnement, vous devriez remarquer que le fichier `steamID.maFile`  est disponible dans le dossier `maFiles`. Make sure that `maFile` is in unencrypted form, as ASF can't decrypt SDA files - unencrypted file content should start with `{` and end with `}` character. If needed, you can remove the encryption from SDA settings first, and enable it again when you're done. Once the file is in unencrypted form, copy it to `config` directory of ASF.

You can now rename `steamID.maFile` to `BotName.maFile` in ASF config directory, where `BotName` is the name of your bot you're adding ASF 2FA to. Sinon, vous pouvez le laisser tel quel, ASF le sélectionnera automatiquement après vous être connecté. Renaming the file helps ASF by making it possible to use ASF 2FA before logging in, if you don't do that, then the file can be picked only after ASF successfully logs in (as ASF doesn't know `steamID` of your account before in fact logging in).

Si vous avez tout fait correctement, lancez ASF, et vous devriez remarquer:



```text
[*] INFO: ImportAuthenticator() <1> Converting .maFile into ASF format...
[*] INFO: ImportAuthenticator() <1> Successfully finished importing mobile authenticator!
```


Votre ASF 2FA devrait désormais être opérationnel pour ce compte.



---



### WinAuth

Une fois que votre fichier est sur votre PC, saisissez-le sous la forme `BotName.maFile</ 0> dans le répertoire de configuration ASF, où <code>BotName</ 0> correspond au nom de votre bot auquel vous ajoutez ASF 2FA. N'oubliez pas qu'il doit s'agir de <code> BotName.maFile </ 0> et NON <code> BotName.maFile.txt </ 0>, Windows  masque parfois les extensions connues par défaut. Si vous indiquez un nom incorrect, il ne sera pas sélectionné par ASF.</p>

<p spaces-before="0">Maintenant, lancez WinAuth comme d’habitude. Faites un clic droit sur l'icône Steam et sélectionnez "Afficher le code SteamGuard et le code de récupération". Puis cochez "Autoriser la copie". Vous devez connaître la structure JSON que vous connaissez bien en bas de la fenêtre, en commençant par <code> {</ 0>. Copiez le texte entier dans un fichier <code> BotName.maFile </ 0> créé par vous même à l'étape précédente.</p>

<p spaces-before="0">Si vous avez tout fait correctement, lancez ASF, et vous devriez remarquer:</p>

<pre><code class="text">[*] INFO: ImportAuthenticator() <1> Converting .maFile into ASF format...
[*] INFO: ImportAuthenticator() <1> Successfully finished importing mobile authenticator!
`</pre> 

Votre ASF 2FA devrait désormais être opérationnel pour ce compte.



---



## Done

From this moment, all `2fa` commands will work as they'd be called on your classic 2FA device. Vous pouvez utiliser  ASF 2FA et l'authentificateur de votre choix (Android, iOS, SDA ou WinAuth) pour générer des jetons et accepter les confirmations.

Si vous avez l’authentificateur sur votre téléphone, vous pouvez éventuellement supprimer SteamDesktopAuthenticator et/ou WinAuth, car vous n'en aurez plus réellement besoin. Cependant, je conseille de le garder juste au cas où, pour ne pas dire qu’il est plus maniable que l’authentificateur Steam ordinaire. Just keep in mind that ASF 2FA is **NOT** a general purpose authenticator, it doesn't include all data that authenticator should have, but limited subset of original `maFile`. It's not possible to convert ASF 2FA back to original authenticator, therefore always make sure that you have general-purpose authenticator or `maFile` in other place, such as in WinAuth/SDA, or on your phone.



---



## FAQ



### Comment ASF utilise-t-il le module 2FA?

Si ASF 2FA est disponible, ASF l'utilisera pour la confirmation automatique des transactions en cours d'envoi / acceptées par ASF. Il sera également capable de générer automatiquement des jetons 2FA au besoin, par exemple pour se connecter. De plus, ASF 2FA active également les commandes ` 2fa </ 0> que vous pouvez utiliser. Cela devrait être tout pour le moment, si je n'ai rien oublié - ASF utilise essentiellement le module 2FA au besoin.</p>

<hr />

<h3 spaces-before="0">Et si j'ai besoin d'un jeton 2FA?</h3>

<p spaces-before="0">Vous aurez besoin du jeton 2FA pour accéder à un compte protégé par 2FA, qui comprend également chaque compte ASF 2FA. Vous devez générer des jetons dans l'authentificateur que vous avez utilisés pour l'importation, mais vous pouvez également générer des jetons temporaires via la commande <code> 2fa </ 0> envoyée via le chat à un bot. Vous pouvez également utiliser la commande <code> 2fa &lt;BotNames&gt; </ 0> pour générer un jeton temporaire pour des instances de bot. Cela devrait vous suffire pour accéder à des comptes de bot via, par exemple, navigateur, mais comme indiqué ci-dessus - vous devez utiliser votre authentificateur  (Android, iOS, SDA ou WinAuth) à la place.</p>

<hr />

<h3 spaces-before="0">Puis-je utiliser mon authentificateur d'origine après l'avoir importé au format ASF 2FA?</h3>

<p spaces-before="0">Oui, votre authentificateur d'origine reste fonctionnel et vous pouvez l'utiliser avec ASF 2FA. C’est l’essentiel du processus: nous importons vos informations d’authentification dans ASF afin qu’ASF puisse les utiliser et accepter les confirmations sélectionnées en votre nom.</p>

<hr />

<h3 spaces-before="0">Où l'authentificateur mobile ASF est-il enregistré?</h3>

<p spaces-before="0">L’authentificateur mobile ASF est enregistré dans le fichier <code>BotName.db</ 0> de votre répertoire de configuration, avec d’autres données cruciales relatives à un compte. Si vous souhaitez supprimer ASF 2FA, lisez la procédure ci-dessous.</p>

<hr />

<h3 spaces-before="0">Comment supprimer ASF 2FA?</h3>

<p spaces-before="0">Arrêtez simplement ASF et supprimez le fichier <code>BotName.db</ 0>  du bot associé à ASF 2FA que vous souhaitez supprimer. Cette option supprimera les fichiers 2FA importés associés à ASF, mais ne supprimera PAS votre authentificateur. Si vous souhaitez plutôt désactivé votre authentificateur, mis à part le supprimer d'ASF (en premier lieu), vous devez le désactivé dans l'authentificateur de votre choix (Android, iOS, SDA ou WinAuth), ou - si vous ne pouvez pas pour une raison quelconque, utilisez le code de révocation que vous avez reçu lors de la liaison de cet authentificateur sur le site Web de Steam. It's not possible to unlink your authenticator through ASF, this is what general-purpose authenticator that you already have should be used for.</p>

<hr />

<h3 spaces-before="0">J'ai lié l'authentifiant dans SDA / WinAuth, puis importé dans ASF. Can I now unlink it and link it again on my phone?</h3>

<p spaces-before="0"><strong x-id="1">Non</strong> ASF <strong x-id="1"> importe </ 0> vos données d'authentificateur pour pouvoir les utiliser. Si vous désactivé votre authentificateur, ASF 2FA cessera de fonctionner, que vous le supprimiez ou non comme indiqué ci-dessus. Si vous souhaitez utiliser votre authentificateur à la fois sur votre téléphone et sur ASF (plus éventuellement dans SDA / WinAuth), vous devez <strong x-id="1"> importer </ 0> votre authentificateur à partir de votre téléphone et ne pas en créer un nouveau dans SDA / WinAuth. Vous ne pouvez avoir seulement <strong x-id="1"> un </ 0> authentificateur lié, c’est pourquoi ASF <strong x-id="1"> importe </ 0> cet authentificateur et ses données afin de l’utiliser en tant que ASF 2FA - <strong x-id="1"> identique </ 0> authentificateur, juste existant à deux endroits. Si vous décidez de supprimer les informations d'identification de votre authentificateur mobile, quelle que soit la méthode utilisée, ASF 2FA cessera de fonctionner, car les informations d'identification de l'authentificateur mobile précédemment copiées ne seront plus valides. Pour utiliser ASF 2FA avec Authenticator sur votre téléphone, vous devez l'importer à partir d'Android / iOS, comme décrit ci-dessus.</p>

<hr />

<h3 spaces-before="0">L'utilisation de ASF 2FA est-elle meilleure que l'authentificateur WinAuth / SDA /  pour accepter toutes les confirmations?</h3>

<p spaces-before="0"><strong x-id="1"> Oui </ 0>, à plusieurs niveaux. Le premier et le plus important - utiliser ASF 2FA <strong x-id="1"> de manière significative </ 0> augmente votre sécurité, car le module ASF 2FA garantit qu'ASF n'acceptera automatiquement que ses propres confirmations. Ainsi, même si l'attaquant demande une transaction, ASF 2FA <strong x-id="1"> n'acceptera pas un tel échange, car il n'a pas été généré par ASF. Outre la partie sécurité, l'utilisation d'ASF 2FA apporte également des avantages en termes de performances / optimisation, car ASF 2FA extrait et accepte les confirmations immédiatement après leur génération, , par opposition à une interrogation inefficace des confirmations toutes les X minutes effectuées, par exemple. par SDA ou WinAuth. En bref, il n’ya aucune raison d’utiliser un authentifiant tiers sur ASF 2FA, si vous envisagez d’automatiser les confirmations générées par ASF - c’est exactement ce à quoi ASF 2FA est destiné, et son utilisation n’est pas en conflit avec vous tout le reste de l’authentificateur de votre choix. Nous vous recommandons vivement d’utiliser ASF 2FA pour l’ensemble de l’activité ASF - cette solution est beaucoup plus sécurisée que toute autre solution.</p>

<hr />

<h2 spaces-before="0">Configuration avancée</h2>

<p spaces-before="0">Si vous êtes un utilisateur expérimenté, vous pouvez également générer manuellement le fichier maFile. This can be used in case you'd want to import authenticator from other sources than the ones we've described above. It should have a <strong x-id="1"><a href="https://jsonlint.com">valid JSON structure</a></strong> of:</p>

<pre><code class="json">{
  "shared_secret": "STRING",
  "identity_secret": "STRING"
}
`</pre> 

Les données d'authentificateur standard comportent plus de champs. ASF les ignore totalement lors de l'importation, car elles ne sont pas nécessaires. You don't have to remove them - ASF only requires valid JSON with 2 mandatory fields described above, and will ignore additional fields (if any). Of course, you need to replace `STRING` placeholder in the example above with valid values for your account. Each `STRING` should be base64-encoded representation of bytes the appropriate private key is made of.
